---
layout: blog
title: "Test"
date: 2024-04-26 03:22:48 +0100
categories: cto
comments: true
thumbnail: /assets/img/thumbnails/1.jpg
---

Tests... That's a story ! Here is my opinion at the time I am writing this article.

## Who ?

EVERYBODY. There should not be any "test" job title, it's a team responsibility including the product owner !

## Manual VS Automated -> 🤖

Forget about manual stuff. You won't have the courage, time, patience... to run it frequently enough. So go for automated tests.

## Types of Automated tests

What kind of tests should you write ? If you look at the "pyramid of tests" sounds like you have the choice.

I recommend writing mostly **unit tests**. Mainly because they give you a `good confidence of "can I push to prod"` while being quite easy to write, maintin, and run !

## Unit tests

#### Run time

You should be able to run the whole test suite in a **few minutes**. Otherwise, how can you develop without a test feedback loop ?

It means you should not target 100% coverage: be smart in what you test... you want a `good confidence of "can I push to prod"` not perfection.

#### Test data

- unit tests are independant from each other, so recreate the whole data you need for each test.
- mock external providers data, don't rely on other systems

#### failures

Most of the time not a bug, so check:

- the code -> check if you need to adapt your test
- the environment -> try to stabilize your environment
- the test assumptions

#### TDD

Begin your feature with the test in mind, or even better with the unit test. Never write tests after the push to prod, this is a big warning for your product.
Take time to refactor your tests as the code evolves.

#### Flaky tests

test that sometimes pass, sometimes fails are the worst: you loose the `good confidence of "can I push to prod"` so remove them from your CI.

## Service tests & UI tests

IMO, they are slow, flaky, and hard to maintain. But, they have value complementing unit tests. So, you might use just a few of them to cover the most critical paths of your application.

## Integration test & performance test

IMO, should be manual. Under the hood, decoupling your app from external providers is mandatory.

### Resources

- 🎥 1h video from [@badrij @jezhumble](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X9ap-zH0Gkc)
- Uncle bob's[blog](https://martinfowler.com/tags/testing.html)
